Add Embedding SDK readme (#41776)
metabase/metabase: enterprise/frontend/src/embedding-sdk/docs/README.md

Reviewer: One tiny, tiny nit: I think it should be `Metabase Embedding SDK` where `embedding` is capitalized

Author: Fixed in 95aa6cb9c654fbf6908de93bc974130c44f73212

# Metabase embedding SDK for React

> Metabase embedding SDK for React offers a way to integrate Metabase into your application in a more seamless way compared to the current interactive embedding offering.

Reviewer 2: @albertoperdomo you might want to refine the copy here

> You need to authentication your user to Metabase using JWT authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to authenticate your users to Metabase using JWT authentication.
```

## Installation

You can install Metabase embedding SDK for react via npm:

```bash
npm install @metabase/embedding-sdk-react
```

or using yarn:

```bash
yarn add @metabase/embedding-sdk-react
```

## Usage

Once installed, you need to import `MetabaseProvider` and provide it with a `config` object.

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { MetabaseProvider, useQuestionSearch, InteractiveQuestion} from "@metabase/embedding-sdk-react";

// Configuration
const config = {
  metabaseInstanceUrl: "https://metabase.example.com", // Required: Your Metabase instance URL

>   authType: "jwt", // Required

Reviewer 2: to remove this per #41780 - we removed the `authType` field for now

  jwtProviderUri: "https://app.example.com/sso/metabase", // Required: Your endpoint that returns JWT token used to authenticate Metabase. We'll explain more below how to implement this endpoint.

>   font: "Lato", // Optional: you could provide any fonts support by Metabase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  font: "Lato", // Optional: you could provide any fonts supported by Metabase
```

}

export default function App() {
  const { data: questions, isLoading } = useQuestionSearch();

  if (loading) {
    return "Loading…"
  }

  // We just assume the logged in user have access to at least 1 question.
  const firstQuestion = questions[0]

  return (
    <MetabaseProvider config={config}>
      <InteractiveQuestion questionId={firstQuestion.id} />
    </MetabaseProvider>
  );
}
```

> `MetabaseProvider` also supports `pluginsConfig`. Currently we only allow configuring `mapQuestionClickActions`, but we'll support more plugins in next releases.

Reviewer 2: For future release, might be good to explain what our plugins system are intended for, and the example use cases for plugins such as mapping click actions. For instance, there is a number of fields below such as `section: "custom", "type": "custom"` that is not immediately obvious what it does, or why I would need it.

Author: I hope this makes it a little better 234cc6b0d9caea8d970e11220dfafcb11b538926. But I'd need product people help fleshing this out.

const createCustomActionWithView = clicked => ({
  name: "client-custom-action-2",
  section: "custom",
  type: "custom",
  view: ({ closePopover }) => (
    <button
      className="tw-text-base tw-text-yellow-900 tw-bg-slate-400 tw-rounded-lg"
      onClick={() => {
        alert(`Clicked ${clicked.column?.name}: ${clicked.value}`);
        closePopover();
      }}
    >
      Custom element
    </button>
  ),
});

const plugins = {
  /**
   * You will have access to default `clickActions` that Metabase render by default.
   * So you could decide if you want to add custom actions, remove certain actions, etc.
   */
  mapQuestionClickActions: (clickActions, clicked) => {
    return [
      ...clickActions,
      createCustomAction(clicked),
      createCustomActionWithView(clicked),
    ]
  }
}

return (
  <MetabaseProvider config={config} pluginsConfig={plugins}>
    <InteractiveQuestion questionId={firstQuestion.id}  />
  </MetabaseProvider>
);
```

After you have configured Metabase embedding SDK for React, you need to make sure your `jwtProviderUri` endpoint returns JWT token that your Metabase instance can use for authentication.

> **Metabase embedding SDK for React only support JWT authentication.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Metabase Embedding SDK for React only supports JWT authentication**
```

On another note, we might want to put this on as a disclaimer at the top of the page, so users don't read everything only to realize they can't use it

Author: We have one up there
https://github.com/metabase/metabase/blob/ef02db2e0ee109875180692fc0acfddc4331f548/enterprise/frontend/src/embedding-sdk/docs/README.md?plain=1#L5

with all the typo lol. I'll fix the typo here and there as well.

Reviewer: Ah sounds good

> Here is the example how you could implement an endpoint that will return JWT token that Metabase embedding SDK for react could use to authenticate your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's how you can implement an endpoint that will return a JWT token. The SDK will use this token to authenticate your users.
```

```ts
import express from "express"
import type { Request, Response } from "express"

import jwt from "jsonwebtoken"
import fetch from "node-fetch"

async function metabaseAuthHandler(req: Request, res: Response) {
  const { user } = req.session

  if (!user) {
    return res.status(401).json({
      status: 'error',
      message: 'not authenticated',
    })
  }

  const token = jwt.sign(
    {
      email: user.email,
      first_name: user.firstName,
      last_name: user.lastName,
      groups: [user.group],
      exp: Math.round(Date.now() / 1000) + 60 * 10, // 10 minutes expiration
    },
    // This is the JWT signing secret in your Metabase JWT authentication setting
    METABASE_JWT_SHARED_SECRET
  )
  const ssoUrl = `${METABASE_INSTANCE_URL}?token=true&jwt=${token}`

  try {
    const response = await fetch(ssoUrl, { method: 'GET' })

>     const text = await response.text()
>     const token = JSON.parse(text)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    const token = await response.json()
```

I did an additional check in the customer-zero demo to add a warning in case of instances with JWT auth disabled, but we don't have this check here - so we can directly convert to JSON :)

    return res.status(200).json(token)
  } catch (error) {
    if (error instanceof Error) {
      res.status(401).json({
        status: 'error',
        message: 'authentication failed',
        error: error.message,
      })
    }
  }
}

const app = express()

// middleware
app.use(
  session({
    secret: SESSION_SECRET,
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: true,
    cookie: { secure: false },
  }),
)
app.use(express.json())

// routes
app.get("/sso/metabase", metabaseAuthHandler)
app.listen(PORT, () => {
  console.log(`API running at http://localhost:${PORT}`)
})
```

## More examples

> - [Customer Zero: Embedding SDK demo application](https://github.com/metabase/embedding-sdk-customer-zero)

Author: This is a private repo. Maybe we can remove this section for now. What do you guys think?

## Known limitations

> - Metabase embedding SDK only support React

Reviewer: Let's make this more succinct:
```suggestion
The Metabase Embedding SDK only supports React on SPA Webpack applications. We aim to add support for other platforms in the near future.
```

Author: How would this work with the 2 unordered item below? Or did you mean we should add `-` before your suggestion to make it an item too?

Reviewer: I think we nuke unordered items. Sorry, I should have mentioned that

Reviewer: And just keep it as a sentence, no items needed!

Author: Should we mention vite somewhere? @heypoom mention there are alot of vite users that it might be worth explicitly calling that out

# Metabase embedding SDK for React

Metabase embedding SDK for React offers a way to integrate Metabase into your application in a more seamless way compared to the current interactive embedding offering.

## Installation

You can install Metabase embedding SDK for react via npm:

```bash

> npm @metabase/embedding-sdk-react

Author: I assume that this package will be available via npm.

> npm @metabase/embedding-sdk-react

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
npm install @metabase/embedding-sdk-react
```

Author: 🤦 Dang it. Thanks you 😄

```

or using yarn:

```bash
yarn add @metabase/embedding-sdk-react
```

## Usage

> Once installed, you can need to import `MetabaseProvider` and provide it a `config` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once installed, you need to import `MetabaseProvider` and provide it with a `config` object.
```

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { MetabaseProvider, useQuestionSearch, InteractiveQuestion} from "@metabase/embedding-sdk-react";

// JWT configuration
const jwtConfig = {
  metabaseInstanceUrl: "https://metabase.example.com", // Required: Your Metabase instance URL
  authType: "jwt", // Required: "jwt" or "apiKey"
  jwtProviderUri: "https://app.example.com/sso/metabase", // Required: Your endpoint that returns JWT token used to authenticate Metabase
  font: "Lato", // Optional: you could provide any fonts support by Metabase
}

// API Key configuration
const apiKeyConfig = {
  metabaseInstanceUrl: "https://metabase.example.com",
  authType: "apiKey",
  apiKey: "your_metabase_api_key" // Required: API Key created in your Metabase admin settings.
}

export default function App() {

>   const { data: [question], isLoading } = useQuestionSearch();

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a small comment that this returns the first question. I was a bit confused at first as the hook ends in `Search`, so I wasn't aware that this hook just returns all questions if the query term is not provided.

Author: fair enough. Actually I even we provide a search team it would still return an array since it's calling `useEntityListQuery` under the hood
https://github.com/metabase/metabase/blob/4463c31cc02781c344ae52cc81a5cc2702264caf/enterprise/frontend/src/embedding-sdk/hooks/public/use-question-search.ts#L21-L24

https://github.com/metabase/metabase/blob/4463c31cc02781c344ae52cc81a5cc2702264caf/frontend/src/metabase/common/hooks/entity-framework/use-search-list-query/use-search-list-query.ts#L23-L30

  if (loading) {
    return "Loading…"
  }

  return (
    <MetabaseProvider config={jwtConfig}>
      <InteractiveQuestion questionId={question.id} />
    </MetabaseProvider>
  );
}
```

## More examples
- [Customer Zero: Embedding SDK demo application](https://github.com/metabase/embedding-sdk-customer-zero)

______

> For more detailed how to build Metabase embedding SDK locally please see the [documentation](https://github.com/metabase/metabase/blob/master/enterprise/frontend/src/embedding-sdk/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For a more detailed guide on how to build the Metabase embedding SDK locally, please refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/metabase/metabase/blob/master/enterprise/frontend/src/embedding-sdk/README.md).
```
